Design and Technology Professionals: Results from recent job postings Lee Daniels East Tennessee State University USA danielsh@etsu.edu 
Brent Hoard, William Sugar, and Abbie Brown East Carolina University USA brent@brenthoard.com SUGARW@ecu.edu BROWNAB@ecu.edu Abstract: We describe and discuss results from a recent analysis of over six month’s of Instructional Design and Technology job advertisements (n=609). Specific job skills from these postings were categorized and analyzed. The data set includes three job settings (Corporate, Higher education, and Combination). We present pertinent results and compare these with earlier studies. Implications on courses that teach multimedia production skills are explored. 
Background information Instructional Design and Technology graduates is both a recent and an historically recurring issue amongst Instructional Design and Technology faculty and researchers. These skills were identified in two sources: Earle and Persichitte’s (2005) AECT curriculum standards (i.e., Use authoring tools to create effective hypermedia/multimedia instructional materials or products) and Richey, Fields, and Foxon’s (2001) instructional design competencies (i.e., 
Specify the capabilities of existing and emerging technologies to enhance motivation, visualization, interaction, simulation, and individualization). Ritzhaupf, Martin, and Daniels (2010) surveyed 231 professionals and reviewed 205 relevant job postings regarding the necessary multimedia competencies for Instructional Design and Technology professionals. Reviewing six weeks of job postings, Lowenthal, Wilson, and Dunlap (2010) sought to understand the tools and technologies required of instructional designers and elearning professionals. Romero and Watson (2010) examined “knowledge, competencies, experience, and skills” found in relevant Instructional Design and Technology job advertisements. 
The authors also examined multimedia production competencies and skills of Instructional Design and Technology students over that past few years [reference withheld for blind review]. We surveyed 112 Instructional Design and Technology professionals about multimedia production competencies of Instructional Design and Technology graduates. Almost ninety percent of the Over seventy percent of our respondents identified Dreamweaver (76.9%), graphics applications (e.g., Illustrator, Photoshop and Fireworks -76.9%) and Flash (71.4%) as necessary computer-based authoring skills that an Instructional Design and Technology graduate needs to possess. Over sixty percent of the respondents identified the following key multimedia competencies: video files (74.7%), non-linear navigation (63.7%), SWF files (63.7%), sound files (62.6%), and linear navigation (60.4%). 
Purpose of study 
The purpose of our current study is to further comprehend these necessary multimedia design competencies by conducting an analysis of job postings listed over a six-month period (n=609). Our goal is to expand our initial data collection and compare our results with other similar data analyses (Lowenthal, Wilson, & Dunlap, 2010; Ritzhaupf, Martin, & Daniels, 2010; Romero & Watson, 2010). We also wanted to compare and contrast the similarities and differences between a particular job setting (e.g. higher education). This data may help Instructional Design and Technology educators modify their respective curriculums to meet the need of students, employers, and the profession in general. 
Methods located from the following job board websites: American Society for Training & Development’s (ASTD) job bank, Association of Computing Machinery’s (ACM) job site, Association for Educational Communications and Technology (AECT) job board, Chronicle of Higher Education job listings, Higher Ed.jobs site, and International Society for Performance Improvement’s (ISPI) job board and Monster.com. Job titles were quite varied and included the following job titles: e-learning specialist, instructional designer, learning strategist, training facilitator, and other similar instructional design and technology related positions. 
Each job description was analyzed by identifying key characteristics. These included multimedia production skills and other related instructional design skills. Multiple researchers examined each job posting. Specific categories emerged from this analysis using a constant-comparative technique (Creswell, 2009 – see pattern theory and qualitative approaches; Glaser & Strauss, 1967; Lincoln & Guba, 1985). Our analysis yielded a total of 66 distinct categories. 
Results 
We briefly describe our results below. Of the 609 jobs in our search, 65% of the jobs were in the corporate sector (n=396) and 29.6% of the jobs were in the higher education sector (n=180). Approximately, 5.4% of the jobs were a combination of a corporate and a higher education job (n=33). That is, a job listing was for a for-profit organization (e.g., SunGard Higher Education, of the corporate jobs (n=338) required at least one multimedia/software skill, 82% of the higher education jobs (n=148) required at least one multimedia/software skill, and 97% of the combination jobs (n=32) required at least one multimedia/software skill. 96%of the corporate jobs (n=381) required at least one instructional design skill (e.g., needs analysis), 89% of the higher education jobs (n=160) required at least one instructional design skill, and 93% of the combination jobs (n=31) required at least one instructional design skill. 
In addition to these multimedia and instructional design skills, there were a high percentage of eLearning, collaboration and communication skills within this job database. Over 80% of the jobs required applicants to design online instruction (n=488) and to effectively collaborate with clients, subject-matter experts, and faculty (n=492). Almost 70% of the jobs expected applicants to have effective communication skills (n=424). 
Implications 
We look forward to sharing and discussing the entire set of our data and corresponding results. We anticipate discussing the similarities and differences between our job settings, as well exploring patterns with each sector. We will discuss the interrelationship between multimedia and instructional design competencies. We also plan to compare our results with the aforementioned studies (Lowenthal, Wilson, & Dunlap, 2010; Ritzhaupf, Martin, & Daniels, 2010; enhance our respective curricula as well as that of other educators’ Instructional Design and Technology programs. 
References 
Creswell, J.W. (2009). Research design: Qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods approaches, third edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage. 
Earle, R. S. & Persichitte, K. A. (2005) (Eds.). Standards for the accreditation of school media specialist and educational technology specialist programs. (4th ed.). Bloomington, IN: Association for Educational Communications and Technology. 
Glaser, B.G. & Strauss, A.L. (1967). The discovery of grounded theory. Chicago: 
Aldine. Lincoln, Y.S. & Guba, E.G. (1985). Naturalistic inquiry. Newbury Park, CA: Sage. Lowenthal, P., Wilson, B. G., & Dunlap, J. C. (2010). An analysis of what 
instructional designers need to know and be able to do to get a job. Presented at the annual meeting of the Association for Educational Communications and Technology, Anaheim, CA, October, 2010. 
Orey, M., McClendon, V.J., & Branch, R.M. (eds.). (2007). Educational media and technology yearbook, volume 31. Libraries Unlimited 
Richey, R.C., Fields, D.C., & Foxon, M. (2001). Instructional design competencies: The standards (3rd ed.). Syracuse, NY: ERIC Clearinghouse on Information & Technology. 
Ritzhaupt, A., Martin, F. & Daniels, K. (2010). Multimedia competencies for an educational technologist: A survey of professionals and job announcement analysis. Journal of Educational Multimedia and Hypermedia, 19(4), 421­
449. 
Romero, E. J. & Watson, G. S. (2010). An analysis of job ads in ID&T: Implications for ID&T programs & future professionals. Presented at the annual meeting of the Association for Educational Communications and Technology, Anaheim, CA, October, 2010. 
